#Codebook of *data_tidy_output.txt*
***
>###This file contains the codebook and variable describtion for the tidy dataset generated by the *run_analysis.R* script and dumped to *data_tidy_output.txt* datafile  
***
###this file describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data 

###Extracting only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.

###tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject
***
==================================================================
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset
Version 1.1
==================================================================
>Original credits
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova.
Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.
activityrecognition@smartlab.ws
www.smartlab.ws
==================================================================
***
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 
***
The dataset includes the following files:
=========================================

* 'README.md'

* 'Codebook.md'

* 'run_script.R'

* 'data_tidy_output.txt'

* 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.

* 'features.txt': List of all features.

* 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.

* 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.

* 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.

* 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.

* 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

The following files are available for the train and test data. Their descriptions are equivalent. 

* 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 


***

a list of all features included in this dataset:

86 features:

 [1] "tBodyAcc.mean...X"                   
 [2] "tBodyAcc.mean...Y"                   
 [3] "tBodyAcc.mean...Z"                   
 [4] "tGravityAcc.mean...X"                
 [5] "tGravityAcc.mean...Y"                
 [6] "tGravityAcc.mean...Z"                
 [7] "tBodyAccJerk.mean...X"               
 [8] "tBodyAccJerk.mean...Y"               
 [9] "tBodyAccJerk.mean...Z"               
[10] "tBodyGyro.mean...X"                  
[11] "tBodyGyro.mean...Y"                  
[12] "tBodyGyro.mean...Z"                  
[13] "tBodyGyroJerk.mean...X"              
[14] "tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Y"              
[15] "tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Z"              
[16] "tBodyAccMag.mean.."                  
[17] "tGravityAccMag.mean.."               
[18] "tBodyAccJerkMag.mean.."              
[19] "tBodyGyroMag.mean.."                 
[20] "tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean.."             
[21] "fBodyAcc.mean...X"                   
[22] "fBodyAcc.mean...Y"                   
[23] "fBodyAcc.mean...Z"                   
[24] "fBodyAcc.meanFreq...X"               
[25] "fBodyAcc.meanFreq...Y"               
[26] "fBodyAcc.meanFreq...Z"               
[27] "fBodyAccJerk.mean...X"               
[28] "fBodyAccJerk.mean...Y"               
[29] "fBodyAccJerk.mean...Z"               
[30] "fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq...X"           
[31] "fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq...Y"           
[32] "fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq...Z"           
[33] "fBodyGyro.mean...X"                  
[34] "fBodyGyro.mean...Y"                  
[35] "fBodyGyro.mean...Z"                  
[36] "fBodyGyro.meanFreq...X"              
[37] "fBodyGyro.meanFreq...Y"              
[38] "fBodyGyro.meanFreq...Z"              
[39] "fBodyAccMag.mean.."                  
[40] "fBodyAccMag.meanFreq.."              
[41] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean.."          
[42] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.meanFreq.."      
[43] "fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean.."             
[44] "fBodyBodyGyroMag.meanFreq.."         
[45] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean.."         
[46] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.meanFreq.."     
[47] "angle.tBodyAccMean.gravity."         
[48] "angle.tBodyAccJerkMean..gravityMean."
[49] "angle.tBodyGyroMean.gravityMean."    
[50] "angle.tBodyGyroJerkMean.gravityMean."
[51] "angle.X.gravityMean."                
[52] "angle.Y.gravityMean."                
[53] "angle.Z.gravityMean."                
[54] "tBodyAcc.std...X"                    
[55] "tBodyAcc.std...Y"                    
[56] "tBodyAcc.std...Z"                    
[57] "tGravityAcc.std...X"                 
[58] "tGravityAcc.std...Y"                 
[59] "tGravityAcc.std...Z"                 
[60] "tBodyAccJerk.std...X"                
[61] "tBodyAccJerk.std...Y"                
[62] "tBodyAccJerk.std...Z"                
[63] "tBodyGyro.std...X"                   
[64] "tBodyGyro.std...Y"                   
[65] "tBodyGyro.std...Z"                   
[66] "tBodyGyroJerk.std...X"               
[67] "tBodyGyroJerk.std...Y"               
[68] "tBodyGyroJerk.std...Z"               
[69] "tBodyAccMag.std.."                   
[70] "tGravityAccMag.std.."                
[71] "tBodyAccJerkMag.std.."               
[72] "tBodyGyroMag.std.."                  
[73] "tBodyGyroJerkMag.std.."              
[74] "fBodyAcc.std...X"                    
[75] "fBodyAcc.std...Y"                    
[76] "fBodyAcc.std...Z"                    
[77] "fBodyAccJerk.std...X"                
[78] "fBodyAccJerk.std...Y"                
[79] "fBodyAccJerk.std...Z"                
[80] "fBodyGyro.std...X"                   
[81] "fBodyGyro.std...Y"                   
[82] "fBodyGyro.std...Z"                   
[83] "fBodyAccMag.std.."                   
[84] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std.."           
[85] "fBodyBodyGyroMag.std.."              
[86] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std.." 



***
License:
========
Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.

